                            README
                   TEMA_2_ANALIZA_ALGORITMILOR (05.01.2021 - 24.01.2021)

Student: Petruc Rares
Grupa: 322CD
Mail institutional: rares.petruc@stud.acs.upb.ro

##tasks.Task1:
    I chose to select variables representing each possible assignment of a color
    to a vertex (e.q: for 3 vertexes and 3 colors, i have 9 variables,
    first 3 representing the possibilities of colouring the first vertex,
     next 3 for the 2nd vertex and so on).
    For this task, I have built three types of clauses that "translated"
    the k-color problem instance to a sat problem instance, as explained below:
        - type 1 clauses that ensured that no 2 vertexes sharing the same edge
        are colored the same way;
        - type 2 clauses that ensured that each vertex in the graph
         has to be colored;
        - type 3 clauses that ensured that each vertex in the graph
         has one single color.

    After oracle's response, i selected the positive variables and then i got
    the right color (spy for the purpose of this task), using the getSpyId
    method for each vertex, in case the coloring (assignemnt of the spies)
    could have been done.

    Complexity:
        - building the graph: O (N + M);
        - building type1 clauses: O(M * K);
        - building type2 clauses: O(N);
        - building type3 clauses: O(K^2 * noFamilies).

##tasks.Task2:
        I chose to select variables representing possible positions that a
        vertex can have in the presumed existent k-clique we are looking for.
        (e.q: for 6 vertexes and a 4-clique, i have 24 variables,
        first 4 representing the possible positions the first vertex in the clique,
         next 4 for the 2nd vertex and so on).
        For this task, I have built three types of clauses that "translated"
        the clique problem instance to a sat problem instance, as explained below:
            - type a clauses that ensured that each position in the clique
            should be taken;
            - type b clauses that ensured that any vertexes that are not connected
            in the graph can't be in the clique;
            - type c clauses that ensured that each vertex in the clique
            takes a single position in it and no two different vertexes can take
            the same position.

        After oracle's response, i selected the positive variables and then i got
        the corresponding vertex id (family id for the purpose of this task),
        using the getFamilyId method for vertexes in clique, in case the clique
        we were looking for existed

        Complexity:
            - building the graph: O (N + M);
            - building typeA clauses: O(K);
            - building typeB clauses: O((N^2 - M) * K^2)
            - building typeC clauses: O(N * K^2 + N^2 * K).

#tasks.Task3:
    For this task, i found all over the internet the following theorem:
    "if a graph G has a clique of size k then the complement of G
     has a vertex cover of size n−k, where n is the number of vertices."

     So, i've found the maximum clique size in the complementary graph by
     checking all the possible cliques in it (iterating from 1 to the number
     of vertexes) to establish the minimum number of mafia families that need
     to be arrested for the rest of the families not to be friends one another.

    The complexity for this task is approximately equal to O(K * complexity of task 2),
    as now we are not writing the result for task2 ( so -O(N * K) for the complexity
    of task 2 ) + the complexity for the writing which is equal to O (N - max(clique_size
    in the complementary graph built in the task)).

    Complexity general observations for the below tasks:
        - writing the final answer for each task: O(N * K), as we iterate
         through all the variables;
        - amortised cost for string builder concatenation (append) is O(1), so
        I have not really mentioned about it;


##tasks.BonusTask:
        I chose to select the variables, so that for each node "i" there is a
        variable "xi" which holds the value of existance for node i in the k-cover.
        For this task, I have built two types of clauses that "translated"
        the k-cover problem instance to a weighted partial max-sat problem instance,
        as explained below:
            - hard clauses that ensured that any two adjacent nodes would stay
            connected (xi + xj);
            - soft clauses that ensured the minimum k-cover is found (~xi for each
            i from 1 to N).

        After oracle's response, i selected the positive variables (representing
        the nodes that form the minimum cover) and wrote them to the output file.

        Complexity:
            - building the graph: O (N + M);
            - building hard clauses: O(M);
            - building soft clauses: O(N).

    Feedback:
        I found the homework extremely interesting and useful. It was not that
    difficult if you read the statement carefully. The research done on the
    internet in solving the problems gave me new valuable information. Thank
    you for this homework!

    During implementation of the tasks, I followed some of the websites
    listed below, last consulted at 05.12.2021:
        - Graphs in Java: https://www.baeldung.com/java-graphs;
        - BufferedReader: https://www.baeldung.com/java-buffered-reader;
        - BufferedWriter: https://beginnersbook.com/2014/01/how-to-write-to-file-in-java-using-bufferedwriter/.
